King of the Hill is an American adult animated sitcom created by Mike Judge and Greg Daniels that ran from January 12, 1997, to May 6, 2010, on Fox. It centers on the Hills, a middle-class Methodist family in the fictional small suburban town of Arlen, Texas. It attempts to retain a naturalistic approach, seeking humor in the conventional and mundane aspects of everyday life. Unlike other animated programs, plots were often cumulative, much like a prime-time drama. In addition, the show was known for its dramatic cliffhangers during season finales. This style of storytelling was unusual for an animated program at the time King of the Hill aired.
Judge and Daniels conceived the series after a run with Judge's Beavis and Butt-head on MTV, and the series debuted on the Fox network as a mid-season replacement on January 12, 1997, quickly becoming a hit. The series's popularity led to worldwide syndication, and reruns air nightly on Adult Swim. The show became one of Fox's longest-running series, second longest as an animated series. In 2007 it was named by Time magazine as one of the top 100 greatest television shows of all time.[3] The title theme was written and performed by The Refreshments. King of the Hill won two Emmy Awards and was nominated for seven.
The series has a total of 259 episodes over the course of its thirteen seasons. The series finale aired on the Fox Network on September 13, 2009. Four episodes from the final season were to have aired on Fox, but later aired in syndication on local stations from May 3 to 6, 2010, and on Adult Swim from May 17 to 20, 2010. King of the Hill was a joint production by 3 Arts Entertainment, Deedle-Dee Productions, Judgemental Films, and 20th Century Fox Television and syndicated by 20th Television.

Conception[edit]

The design of King of the Hill was based on Texas suburbs from the 1950s like Richardson
In early 1995, after the successful first run of Beavis and Butt-head on MTV, Mike Judge co-created the show King of the Hill with former Simpsons writer Greg Daniels.[4] Judge was a former resident of Garland, Texas, upon which the fictional community of Arlen was loosely based, but as Judge stated in a later interview, the show was based more specifically on the Dallas suburb Richardson.[5][6] Mike Judge conceived the idea for the show, drew the main characters, and wrote a pilot script.
Fox teamed the cartoonist with Greg Daniels, an experienced prime-time TV writer.[5] Daniels rewrote the pilot script and created several important characters that did not appear in Judge's first draft (including Luanne and Cotton), as well as some characterization ideas (e.g., making Dale Gribble a conspiracy theorist).[7] While Judge's writing tended to emphasize political humor, specifically the clash of Hank Hill's social conservatism and interlopers' liberalism, Daniels focused on character development to provide an emotional context for the series' numerous culture clashes. Judge was ultimately so pleased with Daniels' contributions that he chose to credit him as a co-creator, rather than give him the "developer" credit usually reserved for individuals brought on to a pilot written by someone else.[7]
Initial success[edit]
After its debut, the series became a large success for Fox and was named one of the best television series by various publications, including Entertainment Weekly, Time, and TV Guide.[8] For the 1997–1998 season the series became one of Fox's highest-rated programs and even briefly outperformed The Simpsons in ratings.[9] During the fifth and sixth seasons, Mike Judge and Greg Daniels became less involved with the show.[7] They eventually refocused on it, even while Daniels became involved with more and more projects.[7]
Format change[edit]


Over time, series co-creator Mike Judge took a reduced role in the production of episodes.
Judge and Daniels' lessening involvement with the show resulted in the series' format turning more episodic and formulaic.[7] Beginning in season seven, John Altschuler and Dave Krinsky, who had worked on the series since season seven, took it over completely, tending to emphasize Judge's concept that the series was built around socio-political humor rather than character-driven humor.[7] Although Fox insisted that the series lack character development or story arcs (a demand made of the network's other animated series, so that they can be shown out of order in syndication),[7] Judge and Daniels had managed to develop several minor arcs and story elements throughout the early years of the series, such as Luanne's becoming more independent and educated after Buckley's death, and the aging of characters being acknowledged (a rare narrative occurrence for an animated series).[7] Lacking Judge and Daniels' supervision, the series ceased aging its characters and even began retconning character backstories; in the episode "A Rover Runs Through It", Peggy's mother was abruptly changed from a neurotic housewife with whom Peggy shared a competitive relationship to a bitter rancher from whom Peggy had been estranged for several years.
