  It started out as just another Saturday.  April 26, 1986.  John R.
MacDougall, 25, spent the day alone at his satellite TV dealership in Ocala,
Florida, waiting for customers who never came.  "It was," he says, "a normal
day in the doldrums of the satellite TV industry." But that night, MacDougall,
5 feet 11, 225 pounds, and prone to nervously running his fingers through his
reddish blond hair and adjusting his glasses, would transform into Captain
Midnight and set the world of satellite television spinning.
  In Ocala, MacDougall had decided to "play it dumb." Discreetly, he talked to
colleagues in the satellite TV business to find out how the investigation was
going.  But gradually he could not resist discussing the incident with other
engineers and operators who talked about what happens when two signals meet on
a single transponder.  He was outraged when they dismissed his observations.

  "I don't like to say this, but even the more skilled personnel were of the
assumption that you would never get a clear signal with two signals feeding on
the same channel," MacDougall says.  "I brought out the fact that if one was
much stronger than the other, it would override it.  At that point they told me
I was wrong, and that I didn't know what I was talking about.

  "All of my life people have never taken my word for things because I've
always seemed to be a little younger than they are, and maybe a little less
experienced, but I've always come up with the right answer.  They didn't seem
to believe my theory.  Well, I guess they ought to believe it now, because I
was right."

                        THE TIP OFF

  It was a phone call made by a disgruntled dish owner from Ocala that
concentrated the FCC's investigation on the Central Florida Teleport.  Someone
claiming to be Captain Midnight was overheard by a tourist from Wisconsin at a
phone booth just off Interstate 75 in Gainesville, Florida.  The tourist
reported the conversation and the man's license plate number to the FCC.
MacDougall says the impostor was a customer of his, but he doesn't know his
last name.  Again, he was outraged.  "He was very militant about scrambling and
the cable progra business, and not tried to make out like some kind of hero, I
would still be panicking and wondering whether they were going to come and get
me."

  MacDougall's voice rises as he exclaims, "I still can't believe this guy
actually told people he was Captain Midnight and MacDougall says the only time
he broke the law was driving over the 55 mph speed limit.  "I never even bought
beer under age.  I was a model citizen," he says earnestly.

                     FCC MOVES IN

  In July, FCC investigators talked to MacDougall, asking questions that led
him to believe they knew what had happened.  He told them he hadn't done it,
and that he had no knowledge of the incident, but then he really began to
worry.  "I was very concerned about it, but I didn't let on," he says.  "I'm
able to hide my feelings very well.  I can just about convince people I'm a
total raving maniac at the same time."

  Two weeks later, the FCC returned.  This time, they brought along U.S.
Attorney Lawrence Gentile III, who served MacDougall with a subpoena to appear
in U.S.  District Court in Jacksonville.  According to MacDougall, their
conversation went like this:

  "What's this for?" MacDougall asked when Gentile held out the subpoena.

  "Captain Midnight," answered Gentile.  "Aren't you aware that you're a
suspect in this incident?"

  "You're trying to tell me that just because I'm a satellite dish dealer and I
happened to work for a teleport, I'm a suspect?  responded MacDougall.

  "There are other things," replied Gentile.

  "Well, what are they?" asked MacDougall.

  "We can't discuss it here," said Gentile.  "We can talk about it in front of
the grand jury.  You need to think very carefully about this.  You seem like a
level-headed man, but you don't seem to be taking this seriously.  This is a
serious time.  You might want to consult with an attorney."

  "Attorney for what?" questioned MacDougall.  "I haven't done anything.  An
innocent man does not need an attorney.  The only people who hire attorneys are
guilty people."

X-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-X
